	As the 21st century is slowly coming into view, human innovation has achieved a lot- even the things that our ancestors nearly even didn’t come on dreaming of.  One of these is the invention of a computer system. Today, the computer plays a vital role in human lives. It is very useful for everyone because it can perform a lot of operations. We can find computers in schools, houses, offices, factories and even in our own homes. 
	
	The scope of the course Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering which happens to be the path I have selected covers both software and hardware areas of the computer system. It is a must to have the basic knowledge about computer systems, especially in troubleshooting. But first, what is troubleshooting by the way?	

	According to Techopedia.com, troubleshooting is the process of identifying, planning and resolving a problem, error or fault within a software or computer system. It enables the repair and restoration of a computer or software when it becomes faulty, unresponsive or acts in an abnormal way. It is primarily done to keep a system or software in the desired condition, specifically when it encounters or exhibits a problem. It is a systematic approach done within one or more phases depending on the complexity of a problem. As I comprehend the meaning behind the word “troubleshooting”, it would be beneficial for me to be knowledgeable about it to be a more efficient professional in the future. 

	Frankly speaking, before attending this class, I am not very familiar with some of the parts of a computer especially with the interconnections of peripherals inside and outside of it. Given that I possess only a very little knowledge about these, I really looked forward to learning a lot from this subject. 

	As we look back on how the semester, the class is divided into 16 groups. Each group has been given a task of reporting about a specific part of a computer system. The report comprises the important keys and the troubleshooting of most common problems encountered. The computer parts tackled are microprocessors, motherboard, RAM, hard disk drives (HDD), keyboard, mouse, monitor, NIC, SCSI, expansion cards, video card, power supply, router, modem, printer, and scanner.

	Being one of the presenters, I could say that we, my partner and I, have also made a generous contribution to the new learnings of our fellow classmates upon taking up this subject. Before even having to research about the topic assigned to us, we have asked some of my classmates whether they know the Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) but receive an answer of no from all of them. After hearing their answers, it made us a little nervous about presenting this brand new information. We meticulously picked the most understandable definition of each terms relating to the topic assigned to us. With our hands crossed, we hoped so hard that we have delivered our topic on a way that our classmate could easily absorb the important keys.

	As an assessment of the presentation from other groups, they have properly relayed the important information on their respective computer parts. Due to some reason, the first set of groups have not been able to discuss how to troubleshoot the common problems that may occur to their designated computer part. Though it is not intentional, I really think that it could have been better if the troubleshooting part is discussed especially on the motherboard which plays a very significant role in one’s computer system. But as the reporting session done by the following groups, ways on how to troubleshoot have already been discussed so I think that’s good.

	After all the groups have presented, we have conducted two troubleshooting activities. The idea of letting us be involved with the handling of the actual computer system clearly provides good intention, no doubt. We were able to check the system using our own hands. But despite the good intention behind, I think the activities are not properly implemented. The class is divided into two groups which make the two groups to have around 15 or 16 members each. Knowing that 15 people will troubleshoot, not all members have been able to check the systems.

	As I have written above,  I looked forward to learning a lot from this subject. Before Engr. Galao left us- which has really made a drastic instability of the class, he said that the whole class will be taking up a Computer Hardware Servicing Assessment from TESDA. I admit that I am afraid of taking that because I know it is not easy to pass. Despite the small hint of fear I felt that time, it joyed me upon hearing him say those words. At the back of my mind, since we are all taking the assessment, it would also mean that a series of hands-on exams will be conducted since he said that he’ll also take it up with us. Just the thought of it made me a little excited because it’s been a while that I have been mocking myself internally for not being well-acquainted with computer hardware despite being a computer engineering student. When very sudden news about Engr. Galao quitting teaching at BISU, it dismayed me.

	That’s when you Sir, came.  Some adjustments have done. I know that you’re new to the teaching profession so I understand that all of us are adjusting to the new environment. It takes quite a while until the class came into harmony. Maybe because you as someone new, are also learning to pick the most effective teaching principles you could use. In addition, we lack computer units as subjects for troubleshooting, and facilities.

	As an overall review of my Troubleshooting Computer System experience, I find it just okay. It’s not that bad of an experience considering all the circumstances this class has been through.  As per the question, “What are your comments on my (subjected to you, Engr. Perin) teaching experience?”. I think you need improvements, Sir. I know you could do better next time.



